It all starts with, part one, UI the hard
parts, user interface the hard parts,
state view, JavaScript DOM and
events two goals to UI engineering.
One is writing the code to display that
content, in Tik Tok, it's a video stream.
It's a little hard for number of likes,
it's a little profile
picture of the person.
It's the comment window where
you can start writing a comment.
It's the, I know, the number of views.
It's once you're in the content creation
part of it, it's the ability to be able to
see your own self in it and make edits to
what you see, that's displaying content.
That's state or data under the hood,
there must be some underlying in
the computer data that is being displayed.
It's not coming from ether when you open
your phone, it's in there, in the phone,
maybe it's off the internet,
but it's in your phone.
So, the user can see it, and
then let them interact with it.
That means to tap, that means to swipe.
That means to start typing on their
phone and change what they're seeing.
That becomes most difficult,
it sounds so intuitive,
it sounds honestly like that's it,
two goals, displaying content?
Let's just repeat again,
displaying content and
letting users change the content they see,
that's it?
No wonder people underestimate this field,
no wonder people think that it's because
we're going to see, I can display content
on my web browser with like,
it's gonna be beautifully intuitive.
So, what am I complaining about?
Well, the web browser's ad hoc history
ensures that at any degree of scale,
where we're gonna have thousands of
pieces of content being displayed.
Any degree of scale,
we're gonna face significant challenges
joining up the dots between
the different pieces of the web browser.
They've been developed over 30 years now.
Starting with CERN back in 91,
I think it was, where by the way,
then the web browser was meant to be
like a text document with links viewer,
like less sophisticated
than the PDF viewer.
And now you wanna build
a video editor in that?
This is like 20 different teams of
developers over 30 years, ten different
regulatory standards bodies, they use
different run times, different APIs.
We're gonna have to join all of those up
together to understand even how to build
a minimal user interface.
To do that, we're gonna to have to,
yeah, join up the JavaScript, run time,
the DOM, which is implemented
we're gonna see in C++.
Combine that with our web core,
web IDL, DOM API, event API, but
if we can do it,
it lets us build dynamic, interactive,
full web applications that are at
the center of all modern experiences.
So, here we go,
almost every single piece of technology
starts with a visual interface,
a visual user interface.
Have I said this enough times yet?
One, content displayed on the screen,
that's output from the computer.
Two, that the user can change by
taking action, did everyone get that?
Did everyone get, thumbs on that.
If you need to look around to see whether
there's other people then you need to,
I know, no.
Good, thumbs are up, good.
So, let's see some examples,
video stream from Zoom.
That's our lives of course nowadays,
video stream from Zoom,
lights on a tweet which when I
tap on the number of likes or
click on the number of likes
goes from seven to eight.
I've made this trip so
many times but it's still true, but
of course on my Twitter does not
go from seven to eight, does it?
It goes from likely zero to one,
maybe two to three, if I'm lucky,
that's a call to all of you.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Yes, please Mark, go ahead.
>> Does this workshop apply to
non-traditional interfaces like wearables
and things that,
>> What a great question.
I think what's fascinating is, if you
think about, I was actually considering
we could have gone back and
started with those physical switchboards.
Traditional user interfaces or
even a pilot's dashboard with
again those all-physical switches.
Any machine that has a visual
manifestation of underlying state or
data of what's going on under the hood,
we have to maintain consistency
between what we see and the truth
behind the scenes in the computer.
And so, really this applies to all
possible user interfaces whether
wearables, a virtual environment, gaming,
or even physical user interfaces.
However, we are focused today
on that playing out in the most
central aspect of our modern tech stack,
the web browser.
And also thank you guys for
getting us back on track, good.
So, video stream from Zoom,
lights on a tweet, you click on like,
goes from seven to eight.
Comments on the chat,
you start writing a comment.
Now, I can see the comment but
also is now there, right?
We're talking,
we hinted there that it's all about
action to something displayed and change
happening in what we see representing
therefore somehow change under the hood.
Okay, on that note, Mario's position
on the screen there's a little Mario.
Very tiny, yeah, and
if you tap Mario, Mario jumps up.
What people are some other user interfaces
and what's their interactivity?
Okay, who's gonna be the lucky
person who gets called on and
gives me, Alexa, what's a user interface?
And what's, any application that we
see and where we can take action and
change what we're seeing, and
I guess therefore change something
under the hood about that
particular application.
>> All the songs in your
playlist on Spotify.
>> All the songs in your playlist and
maybe you could press play and now you're
seeing the play button go from a play
button to pause because now the facts
behind the scenes are this is now playing
and you're starting to hear the music.
Beautiful, Ian?
>> If you have a smart lock,
can you lock or unlock your door?
>> Wow, go, okay.
>> In the app
>> What a wonderfully general,
absolutely spot on Ian.
I'm thinking also like honestly anything
from like a compose window in Gmail where
you tap, and it pops up the window and
now you're composing your message.
Or if you're in Excel or
Google Sheets, think of the number of
places you can interact in Google Sheets,
that's thousands of pieces of
content being displayed to you.
Thousands of places in which you
can act and change what you see or
change the underlying
state of the application.
Underlying state of, when I say state,
I mean like state of the world,
what's going on in that application,
for example, clicking file, and
I can see the little window pop down
in Google Sheets or tapping a cell and
I can go into that cell and start writing.
Or I can highlight down some cells or
I can click I don't know, pivot table, and
that's gonna pop up a little window here.
That's all me seeing content and
being able to change it, that is it.
It just happens that when there's
thousands of pieces of content on
the screen, each of which you can interact
with by double tapping, single tapping,
swiping, dragging, mousing in, mousing.
It gets profoundly complex very,
very quickly.
All right,
did I [LAUGH] mention my two goals?
Two goals, one display content
from inside the computer.
Two, let the user change that content.